---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-01-09T14:42:30.452Z'
dateModified: '2016-01-09T14:42:20.551Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-01-09-10909ed3-5ece-4324-b795-cb04ee08c3be.md
published: true
url: 10909ed3-5ece-4324-b795-cb04ee08c3be/index.html
_type: Article

---
How much should you
be paid in Switzerland? This is often a tough question to answer, 
because the Swiss are notoriously secretive about their salaries. Unlike
many countries, salary ranges or bands are rarely published in job 
adverts. For many people, this means that finding a comparable salary is
difficult.

Lots of people have 
come to the English Forum to ask about salaries. It's very hard to give 
specific answers, because every candidate is different. Even for the 
same job, different salaries may be offered to different candidates 
because they are more/less advanced in their careers and may bring 
different qualities to the job. When reading this guide, bear in mind 
that these are only broad estimates and that you'll need to think about 
your own individual circumstances when determining your market worth and
whether a salary is 'fair' or not.

There
are a number of guidelines published that can give you a good feeling 
for overall salaries in Switzerland, and that can help you figure out 
where you sit.

Here is the 

.
The personal wages 'Salarium' is an interactive application which 
allows you to obtain for a specific job (economic branch, region etc) 
and for a selection of individual characteristics (age, level of 
education etc.) the following salary information: 

* the gross monthly salary (middle or median value)
* the salary dispersion (interquartile range)
* factors influencing the salary (table of salary variations by region, level of education etc.)
* comparison with personal salary data (total salary based on the same salary components as the median salary)

There
is not an exact salary guide for every imaginable position, so you may 
need to use these figures to get a feeling for salaries overall, then 
extrapolate to figure out where your salary would fit in on the overall 
scale.

As a rule, though, Swiss 
salaries are generous when compared against other countries, so you are 
unlikely to find yourself moving to a Swiss position for less money than
you're getting currently.

Many
people relocating to Switzerland come to work with the big pharma 
companies in Basel or the banks in Zurich. There have been many threads 
about salaries in both of these environments:

Just
as important as negotiating a good salary is knowing how much of that 
salary will end up in your pocket at the end of the month. There are 
several on-line resources that can help you estimate how much tax you'll
pay (it varies depending on which canton you live in) as well as other 
deductions that will be taken from your pay.

(Note: this looks like it is now restricted to Accurity customers only)

Note that as a foreigner, you'll pay your tax by 

,
which means your tax payments will be withheld from your paycheque each
month. In Switzerland, nothing is ever straightforward as laws vary 
from canton to canton, but in general, if you earn less than CHF120'000 a
year, you'll pay your tax by quellensteuer and need to do nothing 
further. If you earn more than CHF120'000 a year, you'll still pay your 
tax by quellensteuer, but you'll also need to file a tax return at the 
end of the year. If there's a balance owing either way, you'll either 
need to pay it or claim a tax refund.

You can find your Quellensteuer rates here:

In addition to the tax that is withheld, there are numerous other charges that will come out of your pay.

Here is a sample payslip:

Monthly Employee Deductions ItemBase Rate Deduction State Pension (AHV)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_6'500.00\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_5.05%\_\_\_\_\_CH F 328.25

Unemployment (ALV)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 6'500.00\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_1.0%\_\_\_\_\_\_CHF 65.00

Company Pension (BVG)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_4'505.00\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_CHF 243.95

Accident Insurance (UVG)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_6'500.00\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_0.76%\_\_\_\_\_\_CHF 49.40

Sickpay Insurance (KTG)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_6'500.00\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_1.07%\_\_\_\_\_\_CHF 69.55

Income tax at source\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_6'500.00\_\_\_\_\_\_\_13.56%\_\_\_\_\_\_CHF 881.40

Net Monthly Salary\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Here are some more threads that explain the various charges on your payslip:

For
most expats working in Switzerland, the only tax you'll end up paying 
as a full-time resident in Switzerland is Swiss tax. Americans, on the 
other hand, remain liable for US tax regardless of where they live in 
the world. Be sure to calculate the impact of US taxes on your take-home
pay. The best guide for understanding US taxation of American expats is
here:

When
evaluating your package, you also need to consider any other benefits 
you are being offered. Many of the bigger companies in Switzerland will 
provide you with relocation assistance, including temporary housing, 
moving expenses, language training. For candidates at senior management 
levels, you may also find that you're offered schooling for your 
children at one of the international schools.

Once
you've figured out what a reasonable salary is for your role, 
education, and experience, and once you've worked out how much of that 
salary you'll be taking home after you've paid your taxes, it's time to 
decide whether you'll have enough to live on.

As a starting point, the 

is CHF109,236\. So you can base your initial assumptions on that. 

There are countless threads about the cost of living in Switzerland, but it basically boils down to this: "It depends."

It's
very difficult to make direct comparisons about cost-of-living. If 
you're coming from a 3'000sq ft house in Texas, you're unlikely to be 
able to afford something similar in Switzerland, because very few people
have a 3'000 sq ft home.

A better 
question to ask yourself is "could my salary buy the sort of lifestyle I
would like to live while living in Switzerland, even if that's very 
different from what I'm living today?" Life is always a series of 
trade-offs, and you'll need to decide which trade-offs are right for 
you.

In closing, this thread should give you all the tools you need to:

* Determine the approximate salary for your industry / job
* Figure out how much of that salary you'll take home
* Understand what taxes and other costs you'll have to pay
* Estimate your cost-of-living
* Decide whether you can live the lifestyle you want in Switzerland

Please
read through all of the material above before asking any questions. 
Asking a specific question like "How much should I earn as a lab 
technician with 4 years experience at Roche?" is unlikely to get an 
answer any more specific than what you can determine for yourself with 
the tools here, and questions like "I've just been offered a salary of 
CHF100'000 in Zurich -- can I live on this?" will get similarly unhelpful
answers, because the answer is, "it depends on what you consider 
living."

Once you've gone through all of the material here, if you still have a question, 

.
If that doesn't get you the answer you need, post it (on a new thread, 
not this one) and the friendly members of this forum will help out if 
they can.